Okay, so moving along
with our development process
in this video we'll cover steps three and four
updating our checkout components to retrieve countries
on the service and also updating the templates
to populate the drop down list for countries.
Open up my checkoutcomponent.ts
Expand my window here for a second.
And I'll zoom in here and I'll create this array countries
so it's an array of country objects,
and initialize it to an empty array.
And now I'll move down here a bit
into this ngOnInit method.
So we do our normal work
of populating credit card months, credit card years
and then we'll also populate countries.
So in the forms initially displayed,
we'll be able to populate the countries.
Okay, so zooming in here then I'll call my service,
luv2shopforservice.getcountries
add your subscribe
and then once we receive the data
and do a console.log on it
and then I also assign that data to the country's array.
Alright, so that's the coding there right now
for the checkoutcomponent.ts
and now need to move our checkout component at HTML.
This is for step four of updating the HTML templates
to populate the dropdown list for countries.
So I'm inside of this HTML template right now
And I'll move down to the shipping address section.
So this is for shipping address right now
and we see that we have a to do section for the countries.
Alright, that's on line 49.
So I'll move over here and kind of zoom in a bit
and I'll get rid of all the to do stuff
because now I'm actually ready to do my work,
I'll get down and dirty and write this code.
And so we make use of our ngFor,
and then we loop over the countries.
So we let country of countries
and then we set the ng-value equals country.
And then I make use of the ng-value
just to keep a hold or a handle
of that country objects so I can use it later.
Because we'll need that
when we actually need to get the actual country code.
But right now we're simply displaying the country name.
And then inside of this element here, option element
then I make use of the curly braces here,
the double curly braces and I say country.name
And let's test it out.
First, make sure my Spring Boot app is up and running
if not, go ahead and start it a real quick.
Then back in my Visual Studio Code,
just open up a new window here
so I can run that application.
Already, so my Angular app is up and running
this move over to my browser, access my application
and then we simply just add
a couple of things to our shopping cart
and move down to that checkout section
or the checkout button.
And now, we should be able to look at shipping address
and for countries if we select that,
then success!
The countries are populated and this is great.
So this is all populated with information
from the rest API that's coming from our database.
Oh yeah!
And we can even go and look at the actual logs
because we did some console.log work earlier.
So over here, close off some of this stuff,
console and then zoom in
here at the bottom and, oh yes, great!
So these are all the countries that we have.
So Brazil, India, Turkey, cool, great.
So now we simply need to do
the same thing for Billing Address.
Right now billing address still has the, to do section
but no problem, we know how to write the code for this now.
So, just move over here and knock this out.
Alright, so right now I'm in shipping address.
Let's just go ahead and copy
the option coding for right now
and then we'll move down
and we'll use that same coding
down in the billing address section.
So let's see where I'm at.
Somewhere in shipping right now, keep moving down.
There we go, Billing Address, okay, cool.
And then down in this section here
where I have the little to do,
then I'll just paste what I had previously.
Great, so that does the whole country of countries
and blah, blah, blah, country.name
Okay, good.
Let's save that,
swing back into our application and check it out.
And so now for a billing address and, alright success!
So the countries are populated for shipping address
and they're also populated for billing address.
Cool, I'm excited, I'm happy.
Good job my friend.